# Overview of Adobe Flex

Adobe® Flex™ is a powerful application development solution for creating and delivering rich Internet applications (RIAs) within an enterprise and across the Web.

Adobe® Flex™ enables enterprises to create personalized, rich applications that dramatically enhance user experience and improve the way people interact with the Web.

Flex applications are built on Adobe's cross-platform Flash Player. Similar to Web applications built on AJAX, Flex applications are more responsive as new changes to the view do not require loading a new page. The Flex framework provides an easy way to develop rich Internet applications by offering MXML -- an XML-based language that contains a graphic user interface, a set of user interface controls, and additional graphical capabilities. The interactivity between the various graphical components is achieved with the ActionScript language. In addition, the Flex framework provides many useful ways to send and load data to and from the server-side components.

On the server side, a gateway application service such as Macromedia Flash Remoting MX is responsible for providing the network communication channel between Flash applications and remote services. The Flash application and the remote service send and receive Adobe's proprietary ActionScript Messaging format (AMF) encoded messages over HTTP / HTTPS. Remote services comprise application server technologies, such as JavaBean, Macromedia ColdFusion components and pages, ASP.NET, and Web services.

The new Adobe® AIR™ runtime enables using Flex technology to build rich Internet applications that deploy to the desktop. AIR applications run across operating systems and are easily delivered using a single installation file. With AIR, you can use your existing knowledge of Flex to develop highly engaging and visually rich applications that combine the power of local resources and data with the reach of the Web.

Additional information about Adobe Flex and Adobe AIR can be found at:

---

## What is the WebLOAD Adobe Flex Add-on?

The Adobe Flex Add-on extends the reach of WebLOAD Professional to the Adobe® Flex™ 3 environment and enables you to test your Adobe® Flex™ 3-based RIAs. The Adobe Flex Add-on lets you to plan and execute tests that simulate the true nature of Flex and AIR applications and real user load on application services running within the Flex environment.

Using the Adobe Flex Add-on, you can:

- Record the AMF traffic between the Flex client application and the remote service.
- Record the traffic generated by various data transfer methods supported by Flex.
- Record the traffic generated by the Flex Messaging Service and the Flex Remote Service.
- Record the traffic sent from an AIR application to the remote service.
- Record AMF traffic that contains Externalizable objects.
- Extract and analyze the AMF message transferred during the negotiation.
- Create a script containing a representation of the AMF message.
- Edit and parameterize the AMF message within the script.
- Generate a load session containing the AMF message and load the remote service.
- Verify the AMF message within the server response.
- Monitor the runtime statistics provided by the LiveCycle Data Services.

**Note:** The Adobe Flex Add-on supports both the AMF0 and AMF3 formats.

---

**IMPORTANT NOTE:** In previous WebLOAD versions, a WebLOAD script was called an "Agenda". From version 12.0, it is referred to simply as a script. Wherever "Agenda" is still displayed, we are referring to the WebLOAD script.

WebLOAD Recorder was formerly referred to as WebLOADIDE.
